(In this work, we propose a novel approach to
generate traffic rule-compliant trajectories for autonomous vehicles/
based on a trajectory-repairing framework)

if initially-planned trajectories are rule-violating or/ physically infeasible,
 we repair the trajectory instead of/ replanning it from scratch.


(By making use of the lazy satisfiability modulo theories paradigm,
we can reason whether and how the trajectory
can be repaired / given traffic rule formulae in metric temporal logic.)


(Let us consider traffic rules for German highways.

With the general rule R_G1,

 the ego vehicle following vehicles within the same lane/
  must maintain a safe distance /to ensure collision freedom for all of them,
  even if one or several vehicles suddenly stop.)


(In the demonstrated rural scenario, the initially-planned trajectory for the ego vehicle violates the
safe distance rule.
In the lazy SMT propagation, we first obtain the proposition to be repaired.
Then criticality measures are used to automatically select the trajectory section that remains unchanged.
Afterward, we use optimization-based motion planning algorithms to obtain repaired trajectories.)

With this, the ego vehicle executes a braking maneuver to avoid the violation.

(Our framework works for all the rules starting with the globally temporal operator.

We also show the applicability of our approach with two more rules.

With rule RG2, the ego vehicle is not allowed to brake abruptly without reason.

After a violation is detected, the initial trajectory is modified by our approach
 with a more reasonable acceleration profile.

 Rule RG3 states that the ego vehicle must adhere to the speed limit obtained from the current environment model
 and the vehicle type. We show an urban scenario /where the ego vehicle exceeds the lane speed limit.

With the help of convex optimization, a kinematically feasible, comfortable, and rule-compliant trajectory
is obtained after the initial trajectory branches off.


We also evaluate our approach with the highD dataset/ over thousand rule-violating trajectories.

The result shows over 90% of trajectories can be repaired/ to comply with traffic rules using our framework.
